docs: DOC-1809: CAPI Image Builder Pre- and Post-Install Scripts (#6779)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/byoos/capi-image-builder/build-image-vmware/airgap-build/rhel-capi-airgap.md

tags: ["operating system", "byoos", "profiles", "pxk", "vmware", "airgap"]
---

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

> This guide teaches you how to use the [CAPI Image Builder](../../capi-image-builder.md) tool in an airgapped environment to create a custom [Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)](https://developers.redhat.com/) image with <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> for clusters that target VMware vSphere and use the image to create a cluster profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide teaches you how to use the [CAPI Image Builder](../../capi-image-builder.md) tool in an airgapped environment to create a custom [Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)](https://developers.redhat.com/) image with <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> for clusters deployed to VMware vSphere and use the image to create a cluster profile.
```

> This guide teaches you how to use the [CAPI Image Builder](../../capi-image-builder.md) tool in an airgapped environment to create a custom [Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)](https://developers.redhat.com/) image with <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> for clusters that target VMware vSphere and use the image to create a cluster profile.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide teaches you how to use the [CAPI Image Builder](../../capi-image-builder.md) tool in an airgapped environment to create a custom [Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)](https://developers.redhat.com/) image with <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> for clusters that will be deployed to VMware vSphere and use the image to create a cluster profile.
```

> This guide teaches you how to use the [CAPI Image Builder](../../capi-image-builder.md) tool in an airgapped environment to create a custom [Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)](https://developers.redhat.com/) image with <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> for clusters that target VMware vSphere and use the image to create a cluster profile.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide teaches you how to use the [CAPI Image Builder](../../capi-image-builder.md) tool in an airgapped environment to create a custom [Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)](https://developers.redhat.com/) image with <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> for VMware vSphere and use the image to create a cluster profile.
```

  - [RHEL ISO](https://developers.redhat.com/products/rhel/download?source=sso) version `8.8`. Ensure you download the
    `x86_64-dvd.iso` file and not the `x86_64-boot.iso` file, and make sure you have its SHA256 checksum available. This
    guide uses RHEL 8.8 as an example. Refer to the [Configuration Reference](../../config-reference.md) page for
    details on supported operating systems.

  - Airgap Kubernetes pack binary of the version for which the image will be generated. This guide uses version `1.30.5`
    as an example. Refer to the [Additional Packs](../../../../downloads/self-hosted-palette/additional-packs.md) page
    for instructions on how to download the binary. Additionally, check the supported Kubernetes versions in the
    [Compatibility Matrix](../../comp-matrix-capi-builder.md).

  - (Optional) Any custom Bash scripts (`.sh` files) that you want to execute when creating your RHEL image. Custom
    scripts are supported beginning with CAPI Image Builder version `4.6.23`.

## Build Custom Image

1.  Open a terminal window and SSH into the airgap support VM using the command below. Replace `/path/to/private_key`

>     with the path to the private SSH key, `ubuntu` with your airgap support VM username, and `palette.example.com` with

Reviewer: Why does this need to be palette.example.com?

Author: Not sure 😅 That was already there. Would you prefer something else?

    cp /opt/spectro/ssl/server.crt rpmrepo/
    ```

9.  Open the `imageconfig` template file in an editor of your choice and fill in the required parameters. For a complete
    list of parameters, refer to the [Configuration Reference](../../config-reference.md) page. Additionally, refer to
    the [Compatibility Matrix](../../comp-matrix-capi-builder.md) for a list of supported Kubernetes versions and their
    corresponding dependencies.

>     The `imageconfig` file is the file used to build the base CAPI image for your cluster, which you can alter to fit

Author: ... Duh 🤦 Thanks for catching that!

    :::

    Once you are finished making changes, save and exit the file.

10. (Optional) You can add custom Bash scripts (`.sh` files) to run before or after the build process. This feature is
    available beginning with CAPI Image Builder version `4.6.23`. If any scripts are found in the relevant directories,

>     they are copied to the Ansible playbook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    they are copied to an Ansible playbook.
```

             ```
            </TabItem>

            <TabItem value="Podman" label="Podman">

             ```bash
             BUILD_ID_CAPI=$(podman run --net=host --volume /root/output:/home/imagebuilder/output --detach us-docker.pkg.dev/palette-images/palette/imagebuilder/capi-builder:v4.6.23)
             ```

            </TabItem>
            </Tabs>

        </details>

18. Execute the following command to view the CAPI Image Builder container logs and monitor the build progress. If you
    added any custom scripts in step 10, the output will be displayed in the build log.

        <Tabs>

    <TabItem value="Docker" label="Docker">

        ```shell
        docker logs --follow $BUILD_ID_CAPI
        ```

        </TabItem>

        <TabItem value="Podman" label="Podman">

        ```shell
        podman logs --follow $BUILD_ID_CAPI
        ```

        </TabItem>

    </Tabs>

        :::info

        It may take a few minutes for the logs to start being displayed, and the build takes several minutes to complete.

>         :::

Reviewer 2: broken box
